[SQL] Add ServerTrustCertificates and ManagedInstanceLink cmdlets (#17422)
Azure/azure-powershell: src/Sql/Sql/help/Remove-AzSqlInstanceLink.md

---
external help file: Microsoft.Azure.PowerShell.Cmdlets.Sql.dll-Help.xml
Module Name: Az.Sql
online version:
schema: 2.0.0
---

# Remove-AzSqlInstanceLink

## SYNOPSIS
Removes an Azure SQL Instance Link.

## SYNTAX

### DeleteByNameParameterSet (Default)
```
Remove-AzSqlInstanceLink [-ResourceGroupName] <String> [-InstanceName] <String> [-Name] <String> [-Force]
 [-PassThru] [-DefaultProfile <IAzureContextContainer>] [-WhatIf] [-Confirm] [<CommonParameters>]
```

### DeleteByParentObjectParameterSet
```
Remove-AzSqlInstanceLink [-Name] <String> [-InstanceObject] <AzureSqlManagedInstanceModel> [-Force] [-PassThru]
 [-DefaultProfile <IAzureContextContainer>] [-WhatIf] [-Confirm] [<CommonParameters>]
```

### DeleteByInputObjectParameterSet
```
Remove-AzSqlInstanceLink [-InputObject] <AzureSqlManagedInstanceLinkModel> [-Force] [-PassThru]
 [-DefaultProfile <IAzureContextContainer>] [-WhatIf] [-Confirm] [<CommonParameters>]
```

### DeleteByResourceIdParameterSet
```
Remove-AzSqlInstanceLink [-ResourceId] <String> [-Force] [-PassThru] [-DefaultProfile <IAzureContextContainer>]
 [-WhatIf] [-Confirm] [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

> The **Remove-AzSqlInstanceLink** cmdlet removes an Azure SQL Managed Instance Link. This command may cause data loss if we drop the link and replicas are not synchronized, thus user must explicitly confirm the command when prompted, or use -Force parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Remove-AzSqlInstanceLink** cmdlet drops an instance link. This command may cause data loss if the link is dropped and replica's LSNs are not synchronized with the primary, thus user must explicitly confirm the command when prompted, or use -Force parameter.
```

## EXAMPLES

> ### Example 1: Remove a Managed Instance Link

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example 1: Remove instance link
```

```powershell
PS C:\> Remove-AzSqlInstanceLink -ResourceGroupName "ResourceGroup01" -InstanceName "Instance01" -Name "Link01"

> This operation may cause data loss if replicas last hardened LSNs are not in sync, are you sure you want to continue?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This operation may cause data loss if replica's last hardened LSNs is not in sync with the primary. Are you sure you want to proceed?
```

[Y] Yes  [N] No  [?] Help (default is "Y"): Y
ResourceGroupName              : ResourceGroup01
InstanceName                   : Instance01
Type                           : Microsoft.Sql/managedInstances/distributedAvailabilityGroups
Id                             : /subscriptions/xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx/resourceGroups/ResourceGroup01/providers/Microsoft.Sql/managedInstances/Instance01/distributedAvailabilityGroups/Link01
Name                           : Link01
TargetDatabase                 : Link01DB
SourceEndpoint                 : TCP://SERVER01:7022
PrimaryAvailabilityGroupName   :
SecondaryAvailabilityGroupName :
ReplicationMode                : Async
DistributedAvailabilityGroupId : xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx
SourceReplicaId                : xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx
TargetReplicaId                : xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx
LinkState                      : Copying
LastHardenedLsn                :
```

> ### Example 2: Remove a Managed Instance Link with an explicit -Force flag

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example 2: Remove instance link with an explicit -Force flag
```

```powershell
PS C:\> Remove-AzSqlInstanceLink -ResourceGroupName "ResourceGroup01" -InstanceName "Instance01" -Name "Link01" -Force
ResourceGroupName              : ResourceGroup01
InstanceName                   : Instance01
Type                           : Microsoft.Sql/managedInstances/distributedAvailabilityGroups
Id                             : /subscriptions/xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx/resourceGroups/ResourceGroup01/providers/Microsoft.Sql/managedInstances/Instance01/distributedAvailabilityGroups/Link01
Name                           : Link01
TargetDatabase                 : Link01DB
SourceEndpoint                 : TCP://SERVER01:7022
PrimaryAvailabilityGroupName   :
SecondaryAvailabilityGroupName :
ReplicationMode                : Async
DistributedAvailabilityGroupId : xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx
SourceReplicaId                : xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx
TargetReplicaId                : xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx
LinkState                      : Copying
LastHardenedLsn                :
```

> ### Example 3: Remove a Managed Instance Link by its resource identifier

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example 3: Remove instance link by its resource identifier
```

This operation may cause data loss if replicas last hardened LSNs are not in sync, are you sure you want to continue?
[Y] Yes  [N] No  [?] Help (default is "Y"): Y
ResourceGroupName              : ResourceGroup01
InstanceName                   : Instance01
Type                           : Microsoft.Sql/managedInstances/distributedAvailabilityGroups
Id                             : /subscriptions/xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx/resourceGroups/ResourceGroup01/providers/Microsoft.Sql/managedInstances/Instance01/distributedAvailabilityGroups/Link01
Name                           : Link01
TargetDatabase                 : Link01DB
SourceEndpoint                 : TCP://SERVER01:7022
PrimaryAvailabilityGroupName   :
SecondaryAvailabilityGroupName :
ReplicationMode                : Async
DistributedAvailabilityGroupId : xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx
SourceReplicaId                : xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx
TargetReplicaId                : xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx
LinkState                      : Copying
LastHardenedLsn                :
```

> ### Example 4: Remove a Managed Instance Link by its object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example 4: Remove instance link by its PowerShell object
```

PS C:\> Remove-AzSqlInstanceLink -InputObject $managedInstanceLink
This operation may cause data loss if replicas last hardened LSNs are not in sync, are you sure you want to continue?
[Y] Yes  [N] No  [?] Help (default is "Y"): Y
ResourceGroupName              : ResourceGroup01
InstanceName                   : Instance01
Type                           : Microsoft.Sql/managedInstances/distributedAvailabilityGroups
Id                             : /subscriptions/xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx/resourceGroups/ResourceGroup01/providers/Microsoft.Sql/managedInstances/Instance01/distributedAvailabilityGroups/Link01
Name                           : Link01
TargetDatabase                 : Link01DB
SourceEndpoint                 : TCP://SERVER01:7022
PrimaryAvailabilityGroupName   :
SecondaryAvailabilityGroupName :
ReplicationMode                : Async
DistributedAvailabilityGroupId : xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx
SourceReplicaId                : xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx
TargetReplicaId                : xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx
LinkState                      : Copying
LastHardenedLsn                :
```

> ### Example 5: Remove a Managed Instance Link by its parent instance object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example 5: Remove instance link by its parent instance object
```

PS C:\> Remove-AzSqlInstanceLink -InstanceObject $instance -Name "Link01"
This operation may cause data loss if replicas last hardened LSNs are not in sync, are you sure you want to continue?
[Y] Yes  [N] No  [?] Help (default is "Y"): Y
ResourceGroupName              : ResourceGroup01
InstanceName                   : Instance01
Type                           : Microsoft.Sql/managedInstances/distributedAvailabilityGroups
Id                             : /subscriptions/xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx/resourceGroups/ResourceGroup01/providers/Microsoft.Sql/managedInstances/Instance01/distributedAvailabilityGroups/Link01
Name                           : Link01
TargetDatabase                 : Link01DB
SourceEndpoint                 : TCP://SERVER01:7022
PrimaryAvailabilityGroupName   :
SecondaryAvailabilityGroupName :
ReplicationMode                : Async
DistributedAvailabilityGroupId : xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx
SourceReplicaId                : xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx
TargetReplicaId                : xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx
LinkState                      : Copying
LastHardenedLsn                :
```

> ### Example 6: Remove a Managed Instance Link using positional parameters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example 6: Remove instance link using positional parameters
```

```powershell
PS C:\> Remove-AzSqlInstanceLink "ResourceGroup01" "Instance01" "Link01"
This operation may cause data loss if replicas last hardened LSNs are not in sync, are you sure you want to continue?
[Y] Yes  [N] No  [?] Help (default is "Y"): Y
ResourceGroupName              : ResourceGroup01
InstanceName                   : Instance01
Type                           : Microsoft.Sql/managedInstances/distributedAvailabilityGroups
Id                             : /subscriptions/xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx/resourceGroups/ResourceGroup01/providers/Microsoft.Sql/managedInstances/Instance01/distributedAvailabilityGroups/Link01
Name                           : Link01
TargetDatabase                 : Link01DB
SourceEndpoint                 : TCP://SERVER01:7022
PrimaryAvailabilityGroupName   :
SecondaryAvailabilityGroupName :
ReplicationMode                : Async
DistributedAvailabilityGroupId : xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx
SourceReplicaId                : xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx
TargetReplicaId                : xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx
LinkState                      : Copying
LastHardenedLsn                :
```

> ### Example 7: Remove all Managed Instance Links from its parent instance by piping link object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example 7: Remove all instance links from its parent instance by piping link objects
```
